# LinkedStackJava
This project is about implementing a stack data structure with the use of a node class. It utilizes methods within the linked stack that allows for manipulation and retrieval of the data inside.

Section 1 Project Specification:
	The ADT used in this project was a stack. The core methods the stack ADT have are push, pop, peek, isEmpty, and clear. The ADT behaves as a “last-in, first-out,” meaning the last entry added is the first one that is removed. In addition, the stack can only remove entries from the top. To implement a stack, I used a linked list. The linked list uses nodes that reference another node, forming a “chain” between all of them. Whenever entries were added, a new node was added to the chain. However, since the stack is “last-in, first-out,” I would have to remove nodes from the end of the chain. Both of these scenarios are efficient since removing the most recent entry is fast, along with adding an entry to the end is fast as well, both requiring little code. The stack was used for this project since the objective was to convert an equation from infix to postfix, and then evaluate the equation to obtain a solution. The stack here is optimal, since the operators are the first accessed and the operators correspond to the two most recent operands. This is more efficient than trying to evaluate the expression if it was in its infix form. To accomplish the evaluation, I used two static methods in the Expression class which were convertToPostfix and evaluatePostfix. However, since the expression is not a generic type, it requires no constructor. To assist in the programming of the two static methods, I created two private helper classes, getCalc and precedence. The method getCalc would take an operator and two operands as its parameters. Using a switch case with the operator as the condition, depending on what symbol the operator matched, it would take the two operands and calculate the sum, difference, quotient, or product of the two. The method was used in the evaluatePostfix method by slowly taking apart the equation, calculating the formula between two numbers, and pushing it back onto the stack to be calculated again if the stack was not already empty. The precedence method was used to determine a token’s priority, and from there determined whether or not it would be pushed onto the stack. The method was used in the convertToPostfix method to determine when an operator would be appended to the postfix expression and how.
